# Salaf
## Call to the real path of Salaf
We have witnessed many disputes and deviations between people claiming being Muslims and claiming being Salafis. Lot of people are confused, scared and uninformed so they fail to find out the truth and mostly just follow their local community or famous person. That is a big problem because yes in every sect we can find something Islamic and we can find many righteous actions and correct speech but they all have the same issue and it is the path of not following Salaf and basic Islamic teachings. Term Salaf and Salafi is not to be forced upon people with a cult kind of behavior but it is just to emphasize importance of accepting and understanding Islam in the way that first righteous generations understood it. Today we can see all these sects even many from them screaming "Salafis" and looking as "Salafis" not following 'aqidah of Salaf. They don't follow 'aqidah of first Muslims in understanding shahadah "la ilaha illallah" so their Islam is non-existent. Some of the sects, groups, "jamaat" have proper understanding of basics but they indulge in innovations and blind following deviated personalities. Everyone says for themselves "we follow the Qur'an and Sunnah" but their belief and actions show the opposite.
## You say so, but were is your evidence?
Daily experience shows that debating and active promoting to people rarely ends with calm talks and understanding so for the Muslims it is just to convey and leave people think for themselves. I will help you to understand if you want to think and understand. If you want to ascribe your self to understanding of Salaf or you think that you are following understanding of these righteous generations we can simply analyse the correctness of these statements and views.
## Let's start with few questions
Who are your "role models" from the first three generations? From which books do you back up your beliefs and understanding of Islam? Do you even know what are the stances of first generations or you just follow what is said to you by contemporary people or some scholars of later generations who are not from the Salaf?  

These is a beginning of your self-revision and thinking serious about your Islam because if you see so many sects and deviations why would you be convinced that you are at the straight path?
With Allah's help, in the future at this blog we will post as many info as possible. Post will consist of sayings of Salaf translated to English. If you know Arabic then you already posses the main tool for learning and debunking all lies and deviation attributed to belief of first generations. Some people maybe don't know much about works of Salaf but they didn't accept any kufr postulates from contemporary sects, but unfortunately many learn deviations and lies promoted by groups which they follow and socialize with so they are stripped from the basic sources and real knowledge.  

If and when you find out the truth, don't let Shaytan trick you from accepting Islam, correcting your deviations or lack of knowledge. Don't let him play with your emotions about your self, friends and family. Allah 'azza wa jall guides whom He wills, so don't stay in the darkness just because people you love or you are used to are blind and def. Follow the truth where ever you are, and with whom ever you are. Make du'a to Allah and prepare for death. No one can help you at the Judgement Day except Allah, so turn to Him and ask Him to guide others.  

First book which should uncover many issues and lies is "Khalq af'al al 'ibad" lil al Bukhary:  
[Download/View book here...](https://www.waqfeya.com/book.php?bid=2780)  

If you know Arabic read the book and translate quotes as much as you can, helping other people to learn.  

If you don't know Arabic, then search for translated narrations of imams of Sunnah, ask people to translate, pay them if you are capable, learn Arabic and check out our blog for future posts. Make a lot of du'a to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala, ask Him to guide you and that He shows you the truth in everything.  

I ask Allah 'azza wa jall to help people understand, learn and to liberate themselves from worshiping groups, personalities and emotions. I ask Him to help people in searching the truth, and to help this blog reach as many people as possible, and to save all Muslims from fitnah. Amin.
